Add path-based routing to Enterprise docs (#735)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-25.2/studios/overview.md

> Currently, Studios only supports AWS Batch compute environments that **do not** have Fargate enabled.

Reviewer: Need to update these with relative links that match the paths.

```suggestion
Currently, Studios supports [AWS Cloud](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/compute-envs/aws-cloud), [Google Cloud(https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/compute-envs/google-cloud), and [AWS Batch](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-cloud/compute-envs/aws-batch) compute environments that **do not** have Fargate enabled.
```

There might be errors reported by the session itself but these will be overwritten with a **running** status if the session is still running.
:::

> ## Studio session data-links

Reviewer: Why have we changed this to now be inconsistent with the Data Explorer docs?

> You can configure a Studio session to mount one or more data-links, where cloud buckets that you have configured in your compute environment are read-only, or read-write available to the session.

Reviewer: Why have we changed this to now be inconsistent with the Data Explorer docs?

> If your compute environment includes a cloud bucket in the **Allowed S3 bucket** list, the bucket is writeable from within a session when that bucket is included as a data-link.

Reviewer: Why have we changed this to now be inconsistent with the Data Explorer docs?

You can limit write access to just a subdirectory of a bucket by creating a custom data-link for only that subdirectory in Data Explorer, and then mount the data-link to the Studio session. For example, if you have the following S3 buckets:

- `s3://biopharmaXs`: Entire bucket
- `s3://biopharmaX/experiments/project-A/experiment-1/data`: Subdirectory to mount in a Studio session

> Mounted data links are exposed at the `/workspace/data/` directory path inside a Studio session. For example, the bucket subdirectory `s3://biopharmaX/experiments/project-A/experiment-1/data`, when mounted as a data-link, is exposed at `/workspace/data/biopharmaxs-project-a-experiment-1-data`.

Reviewer: Why have we changed this to now be inconsistent with the Data Explorer docs?

Stop the active session to trigger a snapshot from the active volume. The snapshot is uploaded to cloud storage with Fusion. When you start from the newly saved snapshot, all previous data is loaded, and the newly started session will have 2 GB of available space.

## Limitations

### EFS file systems

If you configured your compute environment to include an EFS file system with **EFS file system > EFS mount path**, the mount path must be explicitly specified. The mount path cannot be the same as your compute environment work directory. If the EFS file system is mounted as your compute environment work directory, snapshots cannot be saved and sessions fail. 

To mount an EFS volume in a Studio session (for example, if your organization has a custom, managed, and standardized software stack in an EFS volume), add the EFS volume to the compute environment (system ID and mount path). The volume will be available at the specified mount path in the session.

For more information on AWS Batch configuration, see [AWS Batch][aws-batch].

### Custom subdomains/non-wildcard SSL/TLS certificates

> Connect, the Studios webserver, uses dynamic subdomains to manage session routing of requests. This requires a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate. For Enterprise deployments that cannot use a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate or that require custom subdomains, an optional configuration environment variable can be added (`TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING = True`). Setting this configures Studios requests to use path-based routing, which does not require a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate and allows custom subdomains.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: here, I would also add some examples of how the routing changes

from this - dynamic, different subdomain used for each studios session
```
https://a1234abc.connect.cloud.seqera.io/
https://a5678abcd.connect.cloud.seqera.io/
```

to this - fixed subdomain with path based routing
```
https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a1234abc
https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a5678abcd
```

To enable path-based routing in Platform, create a new certificate that contains the Platform and Connect addresses (this does not require a wildcard certificate) and use the following configuration:

- `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING=true`
- `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_CONNECT_URL=<NEW_CONNECT_ADDRESS>`

To enable path-based routing in the Connect proxy/server, make sure your `connect-proxy` is available on the address you plan to use as this might require some changes in your DNS configuration, and then use the following configuration:

> - `CONNECT_PROXY_URL=<NEW_CONNECT_ADDRESS>`

Reviewer 2: suggestion: sorry to keep suggesting changes, but I feel like we are still mixing two separate things. One on hand we have **path-based routing**, this is the new feature we added. On the other hand, we can set **custom address/domain for connect**, this was possible to do before as well. So I would separate these two topic like this

```
### Path-based routing/non-wildcard SSL/TLS certificates
Connect, the Studios webserver, uses dynamic subdomains to manage session routing of requests (for example `https://a1234abc.connect.cloud.seqera.io/`, `https://a5678abcd.connect.cloud.seqera.io/`). This requires a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate. For Enterprise deployments that cannot use a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate, an optional configuration environment variable can be added (`TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING = true`). Setting this configures Studios requests to use path-based routing and a single, fixed domain for studio sessions (for example `https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a1234abc`, `https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a5678abcd`).

To enable path-based routing in Platform, create a new certificate that contains the Platform and Connect addresses (this does not require a wildcard certificate) and use the following configuration:
- `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING=true`

### Custom studio domain setup
By default Seqera Platform Cloud uses this subdomain for studio 'https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io'.
However, the domain used for studios can be configured by the following two environment variables.
In Platform:
- `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_CONNECT_URL=<NEW_DOMAIN_ADDRESS>`
In Connect proxy/server:
- `CONNECT_PROXY_URL=<NEW_DOMAIN_ADDRESS>`
Note: this might require some changes in your DNS configuration, and adding SSL/TLS certificates for the new domain.
```

Stop the active session to trigger a snapshot from the active volume. The snapshot is uploaded to cloud storage with Fusion. When you start from the newly saved snapshot, all previous data is loaded, and the newly started session will have 2 GB of available space.

## Limitations

### EFS file systems

If you configured your compute environment to include an EFS file system with **EFS file system > EFS mount path**, the mount path must be explicitly specified. The mount path cannot be the same as your compute environment work directory. If the EFS file system is mounted as your compute environment work directory, snapshots cannot be saved and sessions fail. 

To mount an EFS volume in a Studio session (for example, if your organization has a custom, managed, and standardized software stack in an EFS volume), add the EFS volume to the compute environment (system ID and mount path). The volume will be available at the specified mount path in the session.

For more information on AWS Batch configuration, see [AWS Batch][aws-batch].

### Path-based routing/non-wildcard SSL/TLS certificates

> Connect, the Studios webserver, uses dynamic subdomains to manage session routing of requests (for example https://a1234abc.connect.cloud.seqera.io/, https://a5678abcd.connect.cloud.seqera.io/), which requires a wildcard SSL/TLS certificates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect, the Studios webserver, uses dynamic subdomains to manage session routing of requests (for example https://a1234abc.connect.cloud.seqera.io/, https://a5678abcd.connect.cloud.seqera.io/), which requires a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate. 
```

> For Enterprise deployments that cannot use a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate, an optional configuration environment variable, `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING` can be added. Setting this configures Studios requests to use path-based routing and a single, fixed domain for Studio sessions (for example https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a1234abc, https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a5678abcd).

Reviewer: Why the `connect.connect`? Surely it's just singular and prefixed with the `{sessionId}`?

```suggestion
For Enterprise deployments that cannot use a wildcard SSL/TLS certificate, an optional configuration environment variable, `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING` can be added. Setting this configures Studios requests to use path-based routing and a single, fixed domain for Studio sessions (for example https://connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a1234abc, https://connect.cloud.seqera.io/_studio/a5678abcd).
```

> To enable path-based routing in Platform, create a new certificate that contains the Platform and Connect addresses and use the following configuration, which does not require a wildcard certificate: `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable path-based routing in Seqera Platform, create a new certificate that contains the platform and Connect addresses and use the following configuration, which does not require a wildcard certificate: `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_ENABLE_PATH_ROUTING=true`.
```

> ### Custom studio domain setup

Author: ```suggestion
### Custom Studio domain setup
```

> By default Seqera Platform Cloud uses this subdomain for studio 'https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io'. However, the domain used for Studios can be configured by the following two environment variables.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, Seqera Platform Cloud uses `https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io` as the Studios subdomain. However, the domain used for Studios can be configured by the following two environment variables.
```

### Custom Studio domain setup

> By default, Seqera Platform Cloud uses https://connect.connect.cloud.seqera.io as the Studios subdomain. However, the domain used for Studios can be configured by the following two environment variables.

Reviewer: Does it use `connect.connect`? I thought it just used `{sessionId}.connect`.

```suggestion
By default, Seqera Platform Cloud uses https://{sessionId}.connect.cloud.seqera.io as the Studios subdomain. However, the domain used for Studios can be configured by the following two environment variables.
```

:::note

> This may require changes to your DNS configuration and the addition of SSL/TLS certificates for the new domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This may require changes to your DNS configuration and the addition of a SSL/TLS certificate for the new domain.
```

[build-status]: ./custom-envs#build-status
[cloud-bucket-subdirectory]: ./managing#cloud-bucket-subdirectory
[ds-jupyter]: https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-jupyter

> [ds-rstudio]: https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-rstudio

Reviewer: This is incorrect and the original is correct.

> [ds-rstudio]: https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-rstudio

Author: ```suggestion
[ds-ride]: https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-ride
```
